README.md, before:

[![Latest PyPI Version](https://img.shields.io/pypi/v/fontbakery.svg?style=flat)](https://pypi.python.org/pypi/fontbakery/)
[![Python](https://img.shields.io/pypi/pyversions/fontbakery.svg?style=flat)](https://pypi.python.org/pypi/fontbakery/)
[![Travis Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/googlefonts/fontbakery.svg)](https://travis-ci.org/googlefonts/fontbakery)
[![License: Apache 2.0](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-Apache%202.0-brightgreen.svg)](https://github.com/googlefonts/fontbakery/blob/master/LICENSE.txt)

# [![Font Bakery](data/logo.png)](https://fontbakery.appspot.com)

Font Bakery is a command-line tool for testing font projects, also available as a drag-and-drop web app from [fontbakery.appspot.com](https://fontbakery.appspot.com)

It runs checks on TrueType files, and Google Fonts related metadata files.

If you are developing a font project publicly with Github (or a similar host) you can set up a Continuous Integration service (like [Travis](https://www.travis-ci.org)) to run FontBakery on each commit, so that with each update your files are tested.

Font Bakery is not an official Google project, and Google provides no support for it.

## Web Usage

Visit [fontbakery.appspot.com](https://fontbakery.appspot.com) and drop 1 to 18 TTF files on the page, and click the "3"

The source code to this web-based user-interface is all in the `webapp/` folder.
In order to run it on your own computer, download this source repo and all dependencies for command line usage.
Then run the following commands:

    cd webapp
    ./dev_appserver.py app

Now open <http://0.0.0.0:8000> in your browser.

## Command Line Usage

Fontbakery installs its own command `fontbakery` in your `$PATH`. The `fontbakery` command makes other subcommands accessible. Here's the output of the command line help:

```
$ fontbakery -h
usage: fontbakery [-h] [--list-subcommands] subcommand

Run fontbakery subcomands:
    build-contributors
    build-font2ttf
    build-fontmetadata
    build-ofl
    check-bbox
    check-description
    check-name
    check-ttf
    check-upstream
    check-vtt-compatibility
    fix-ascii-fontmetadata
    fix-dsig
    fix-familymetadata
    fix-fsselection
    fix-fstype
    fix-gasp
    fix-glyph-private-encoding
    fix-glyphs
    fix-nameids
    fix-nonhinting
    fix-ttfautohint
    fix-vendorid
    fix-vertical-metrics
    list-panose
    list-variable-source
    list-weightclass
    list-widthclass
    metadata-vs-api
    nametable-from-filename
    update-families
    update-nameids
    update-version

Subcommands have their own help messages. These are usually accessible with the -h/--help flag positioned after the subcomand.
I.e.: fontbakery subcommand -h

positional arguments:
  subcommand          the subcommand to execute

optional arguments:
  -h, --help          show this help message and exit
  --list-subcommands  print the list of subcommnds to stdout, separated by a space character. This is usually only used to generate the shell completion code.
```

To run the tests on some fonts:

    cd ~/path/to/fontproject/
    fontbakery check-ttf *.ttf

For more detailed output, run in verbose mode:

    fontbakery check-ttf --verbose *.ttf

It may fix some problems, and save `*.ttf.fix` files in the same directory as the original `.ttf` files.

The check results will be saved to a file called fontbakery-check-results.json.

For check results in GitHub Markdown syntax you can use --ghm:

    fontbakery check-ttf --verbose *.ttf --ghm

### FontBakery web Dashboard

There is a web dashboard that is used for monitoring the check-results of the full Google Fonts collection (or possibly other collections of font families). This tool was initialy developed in this repository, but later it was split out into its own git repo, now available at: https://github.com/googlefonts/fontbakery-dashboard

### Automated testing of all Google Fonts

If you need to generate a list of all issues in the Google Fonts, you have to have a full checkout of the Google Fonts git repo, and then you can run:

```
sh test_all_gfonts.sh
```

(you'll probably have to edit the first 3 lines in the test_all_gfonts.sh script though, as for now the gfonts repo path is hardcoded in there. I may later make it into a command line parameter)

This will create a folder called check_results and it will run fontbakery on every family from the gfonts git repo, thus generating individual per-font-file reports both in json and in ghmarkdown format. The reports are saved in subdirectories that have names of the families.

It took me 80 minutes to run the full test on the repo. And the resulting check_results folder has got 105Mbytes of json & markdown files. To squeeze it all into a unified report you can run:

```
./fb_summary_report.py
```

and it will write to stdout.

If you rather prefer to save it to a file you can do something like:

```
./fb_summary_report.py > gfonts_check_summary.md
```

## Other auxiliary fontbakery scripts

### fontbakery build-contributors

This is a project maintainence tool that generate a CONTRIBUTORS.txt file from a repository's git history.

```
usage: fontbakery build-contributors [-h] folder

positional arguments:
  folder      source folder which contains git commits

optional arguments:
  -h, --help  show this help message and exit
```

### fontbakery build-font2ttf

```
usage: fontbakery build-font2ttf [-h] [--with-otf] source [source ...]

positional arguments:
  source

optional arguments:
  -h, --help  show this help message and exit
  --with-otf  Generate otf file
```

### fontbakery build-fontmetadata

Calculates the visual weight, width or italic angle of fonts. For width, it
just measures the width of how a particular piece of text renders. For weight,
it measures the darness of a piece of text. For italic angle it defaults to
the italicAngle property of the font. Then it starts a HTTP server and shows
you the results, or if you pass --debug then it just prints the values.

```
usage: fontbakery build-fontmetadata [-h] -f FILES [-d] [-e EXISTING] [-m]
                                     -o OUTPUT

optional arguments:
  -h, --help            show this help message and exit
  -f FILES, --files FILES
                        The pattern to match for finding ttfs, eg
                        'folder_with_fonts/*.ttf'.
  -d, --debug           Debug mode, just print results
  -e EXISTING, --existing EXISTING
                        Path to existing font-metadata.csv
  -m, --missingmetadata
                        Only process fonts for which metadata is not available
                        yet
  -o OUTPUT, --output OUTPUT
                        CSV data output filename
```

### fontbakery check-bbox

A FontForge python script for printing bounding boxes to stdout.

```
usage: fontbakery check-bbox [-h] font

positional arguments:
  font        Font in OpenType (TTF/OTF) format

optional arguments:
  -h, --help  show this help message and exit
```

### fontbakery check-description

Runs checks on specified DESCRIPTION file(s)

```
usage: fontbakery check-description [-h] [--verbose] file [file ...]

positional arguments:
  file           Test files, can be a list

optional arguments:
  -h, --help     show this help message and exit
  --verbose, -v  Verbosity level
```

### fontbakery check-upstream

Runs checks or tests on specified upstream folder(s)

```
usage: fontbakery check-upstream [-h] [--verbose] folders [folders ...]

positional arguments:
  folders        Test folder(s), can be a list

optional arguments:
  -h, --help     show this help message and exit
  --verbose, -v  Verbosity level
```

### fontbakery fix-ascii-fontmetadata

Fixes TTF NAME table strings to be ascii only

```
usage: fontbakery fix-ascii-fontmetadata [-h] ttf_font [ttf_font ...]

positional arguments:
  ttf_font    Font in OpenType (TTF/OTF) format

optional arguments:
  -h, --help  show this help message and exit
```

### fontbakery fix-dsig

Fixes TTF to have a dummy DSIG table

```
usage: fontbakery fix-dsig [-h] [--autofix] ttf_font [ttf_font ...]

positional arguments:
  ttf_font    One or more font files

optional arguments:
  -h, --help  show this help message and exit
  --autofix   Apply autofix
```

### fontbakery-fix-familymetadata.py

Print out family metadata of the fonts

```
usage: fontbakery fix-familymetadata [-h] [--csv] font [font ...]

positional arguments:
  font

optional arguments:
  -h, --help  show this help message and exit
  --csv
```

### fontbakery fix-fsselection

Print out fsSelection bitmask of the fonts

```
usage: fontbakery fix-fsselection [-h] [--csv] [--autofix] font [font ...]

positional arguments:
  font

optional arguments:
  -h, --help  show this help message and exit
  --csv
  --autofix
```

### fontbakery fix-gasp

Fixes TTF GASP table

```
usage: fontbakery fix-gasp [-h] [--autofix] [--set SET]
                           ttf_font [ttf_font ...]

positional arguments:
  ttf_font    Font in OpenType (TTF/OTF) format

optional arguments:
  -h, --help  show this help message and exit
  --autofix   Apply autofix
  --set SET   Change gasprange value of key 0xFFFF to a new value
```

### fontbakery fix-glyph-private-encoding

Fixes TTF unencoded glyphs to have Private Use Area encodings

```
usage: fontbakery fix-glyph-private-encoding [-h] [--autofix]
                                             ttf_font [ttf_font ...]

positional arguments:
  ttf_font    Font in OpenType (TTF/OTF) format

optional arguments:
  -h, --help  show this help message and exit
  --autofix   Apply autofix. Otherwise just check if there are unencoded
              glyphs
```

### fontbakery fix-glyphs

Report issues on .glyphs font files

```
usage: fontbakery fix-glyphs [-h] font [font ...]

positional arguments:
  font

optional arguments:
  -h, --help  show this help message and exit
```

### fontbakery fix-nameids

Print out nameID strings of the fonts

```
usage: fontbakery fix-nameids [-h] [--autofix] [--csv] [--id ID]
                              [--platform PLATFORM]
                              font [font ...]

positional arguments:
  font

optional arguments:
  -h, --help            show this help message and exit
  --autofix             Apply autofix
  --csv                 Output data in comma-separate-values (CSV) file format
  --id ID, -i ID
  --platform PLATFORM, -p PLATFORM
```

### fontbakery fix-nonhinting

Fixes TTF GASP table so that its program contains the minimal recommended instructions

```
usage: fontbakery fix-nonhinting [-h] fontfile_in fontfile_out

positional arguments:
  fontfile_in   Font in OpenType (TTF/OTF) format
  fontfile_out  Filename for the output

optional arguments:
  -h, --help    show this help message and exit
```

### fontbakery fix-ttfautohint

Fixes TTF Autohint table

```
usage: fontbakery fix-ttfautohint [-h] ttf_font [ttf_font ...]

positional arguments:
  ttf_font    Font in OpenType (TTF/OTF) format

optional arguments:
  -h, --help  show this help message and exit
```

### fontbakery fix-vendorid

Print vendorID of TTF files

```
usage: fontbakery fix-vendorid [-h] arg_filepaths [arg_filepaths ...]

positional arguments:
  arg_filepaths  font file path(s) to check. Wildcards like *.ttf are allowed.

optional arguments:
  -h, --help     show this help message and exit
```

### fontbakery fix-vertical-metrics

```
usage: fontbakery fix-vertical-metrics  [-h] [-a ASCENTS] [-ah ASCENTS_HHEA]
                                        [-at ASCENTS_TYPO] [-aw ASCENTS_WIN]
                                        [-d DESCENTS] [-dh DESCENTS_HHEA]
                                        [-dt DESCENTS_TYPO]
                                        [-dw DESCENTS_WIN] [-l LINEGAPS]
                                        [-lh LINEGAPS_HHEA]
                                        [-lt LINEGAPS_TYPO]
                                        ttf_font [ttf_font ...]

positional arguments:
  ttf_font              Font file in OpenType (TTF/OTF) format

optional arguments:
  -h, --help            show this help message and exit
  -a ASCENTS, --ascents ASCENTS
                        Set new ascents value.
  -ah ASCENTS_HHEA, --ascents-hhea ASCENTS_HHEA
                        Set new ascents value in 'Horizontal Header' table
                        ('hhea'). This argument cancels --ascents.
  -at ASCENTS_TYPO, --ascents-typo ASCENTS_TYPO
                        Set new ascents value in 'Horizontal Header' table
                        ('OS/2'). This argument cancels --ascents.
  -aw ASCENTS_WIN, --ascents-win ASCENTS_WIN
                        Set new ascents value in 'Horizontal Header' table
                        ('OS/2.Win'). This argument cancels --ascents.
  -d DESCENTS, --descents DESCENTS
                        Set new descents value.
  -dh DESCENTS_HHEA, --descents-hhea DESCENTS_HHEA
                        Set new descents value in 'Horizontal Header' table
                        ('hhea'). This argument cancels --descents.
  -dt DESCENTS_TYPO, --descents-typo DESCENTS_TYPO
                        Set new descents value in 'Horizontal Header' table
                        ('OS/2'). This argument cancels --descents.
  -dw DESCENTS_WIN, --descents-win DESCENTS_WIN
                        Set new descents value in 'Horizontal Header' table
                        ('OS/2.Win'). This argument cancels --descents.
  -l LINEGAPS, --linegaps LINEGAPS
                        Set new linegaps value.
  -lh LINEGAPS_HHEA, --linegaps-hhea LINEGAPS_HHEA
                        Set new linegaps value in 'Horizontal Header' table
                        ('hhea')
  -lt LINEGAPS_TYPO, --linegaps-typo LINEGAPS_TYPO
                        Set new linegaps value in 'Horizontal Header' table
                        ('OS/2')
```

### fontbakery list-panose

Print out Panose of the fonts

```
usage: fontbakery list-panose [-h] [--csv] font [font ...]

positional arguments:
  font

optional arguments:
  -h, --help  show this help message and exit
  --csv
```

### fontbakery list-weightclass

Print out usWeightClass of the fonts

```
usage: fontbakery list-weightclass [-h] [--csv] font [font ...]

positional arguments:
  font

optional arguments:
  -h, --help  show this help message and exit
  --csv
```

### fontbakery list-widthclass

Print out usWidthClass of the fonts

```
usage: fontbakery list-widthclass [-h] [--csv] [--set SET] [--autofix]
                                  font [font ...]

positional arguments:
  font

optional arguments:
  -h, --help  show this help message and exit
  --csv
  --set SET
  --autofix
```

### fontbakery metadata-vs-api

```
usage: fontbakery metadata-vs-api [-h] [--cache CACHE] [--verbose]
                                  [--ignore-copy-existing-ttf] [--autofix]
                                  [--api API]
                                  key repo

positional arguments:
  key                   Key from Google Fonts Developer API
  repo                  Directory tree that contains directories with
                        METADATA.pb files

optional arguments:
  -h, --help            show this help message and exit
  --cache CACHE         Directory to store a copy of the files in the fonts
                        developer api
  --verbose             Print additional information
  --ignore-copy-existing-ttf
  --autofix             Apply automatic fixes to files
  --api API             Domain string to use to request
```

### fontbakery update-families

Compare TTF files when upgrading families.

```
usage: fontbakery update-families [-h] [-v]
                                  arg_filepaths [arg_filepaths ...]

positional arguments:
  arg_filepaths      font file path(s) to check. Wildcards like *.ttf are
                     allowed.

optional arguments:
  -h, --help         show this help message and exit
  -v, --verbose      increase output verbosity
```

## Install

### Mac OS X

```sh
# install os x developer tools and the homebrew package manager
xcode-select --install;
ruby -e "$(curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Homebrew/install/master/install)";

# install ots
brew tap davelab6/webfonttools;
brew update;
brew install ots --HEAD;

# install fontforge
brew install python giflib libspiro icu4c;
brew install fontforge --with-extra-tools --HEAD ;

# install fonttools
easy_install pip;
pip install --upgrade git+https://github.com/behdad/fontTools.git;

# install python dependencies
pip install -r requirements.txt

# install pyfontaine
CFLAGS=-I/usr/local/opt/icu4c/include LDFLAGS=-L/usr/local/opt/icu4c/lib pip install pyicu;
pip install --upgrade git+https://github.com/davelab6/pyfontaine.git;

# install travis, for setting up CI
sudo gem install travis; # fontbakery dependencies

# install fontbakery
pip install --upgrade git+https://github.com/googlefonts/fontbakery.git;
```

### GNU+Linux

```sh
# install fontforge
sudo add-apt-repository --yes ppa:fontforge/fontforge;
sudo apt-get update -qq;
sudo apt-get install python-fontforge

# install pyfontaine
sudo apt-get install libicu-dev git;
sudo pip install pyicu;
pip install --upgrade git+https://github.com/davelab6/pyfontaine.git;

# install ots from source
git clone https://github.com/khaledhosny/ots.git;
cd ots;
./autogen.sh;
./configure;
make CXXFLAGS=-DOTS_DEBUG;
sudo make install;
cd ..;
rm -rf ots;

# install fonttools
pip install --upgrade git+https://github.com/behdad/fontTools.git;

# install python dependencies
pip install -r requirements.txt

# install fontbakery
pip install --upgrade git+https://github.com/googlefonts/fontbakery.git;
```

## Microsoft Font Validator

A prebuilt binary of the Microsoft Font Validator is currently available at the prebuilt/fval directory in this repo. The corresponding source code is available under a free license at https://github.com/Microsoft/Font-Validator. In order to enable this check, you'll need to have the mono runtime installed in your system. You'll also need to have FontValidator.exe available in the system path. One way to achieved would be:

```
sudo apt-get install mono-runtime libmono-system-windows-forms4.0-cil
export PATH=$PATH:$FONTBAKERY_GIT_REPO/prebuilt/fval
```

...where $FONTBAKERY_GIT_REPO should be the name of the directory where you checked out FontBakery source code. Obviously, you can also use any other alternative way of making FontValidator.exe available in your system path.

## Bash completion

Fontbakery comes with a minimal Bash completion script. It can help you to type the subcommands that follow directly after the `fontbakery` command. Bash completion is accessed by hitting the [TAB] key when entering the command.

There's no special completion support for the arguments of the subcommands yet.

### Install

This will enable completion for `fontbakery` on each newly opened Bash.

* Install bash-completion. On many GNU+Linux distributions it is installed and enabled by default. Mac OS X users can find it in Fink or MacPorts.
* Copy or symlink the `path-to/fontbakery/bin/bash_completion` file to `/etc/bash_completion.d/fontbakery` (on Mac&nbsp;OS&nbsp;X to: `/sw/etc/bash_completion.d/fontbakery` or `/opt/local/etc/bash_completion.d/fontbakery`).
* Restart your shell.

### Alternative install

You can source the file directly in a running Bash and only for the running instance:

```
$ . path-to/fontbakery/bin/bash-completion
# OR
$ source path-to/fontbakery/bin/bash-completion
```

This is particularly useful if you are running `fontbakery` in a python virtual environment, i.e. not a system-wide installation.

Commit message:

update description of check-collection on README.md
(issue #1329)

README.md, after:

[![Latest PyPI Version](https://img.shields.io/pypi/v/fontbakery.svg?style=flat)](https://pypi.python.org/pypi/fontbakery/)
[![Python](https://img.shields.io/pypi/pyversions/fontbakery.svg?style=flat)](https://pypi.python.org/pypi/fontbakery/)
[![Travis Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/googlefonts/fontbakery.svg)](https://travis-ci.org/googlefonts/fontbakery)
[![License: Apache 2.0](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-Apache%202.0-brightgreen.svg)](https://github.com/googlefonts/fontbakery/blob/master/LICENSE.txt)

# [![Font Bakery](data/logo.png)](https://fontbakery.appspot.com)

Font Bakery is a command-line tool for testing font projects, also available as a drag-and-drop web app from [fontbakery.appspot.com](https://fontbakery.appspot.com)

It runs checks on TrueType files, and Google Fonts related metadata files.

If you are developing a font project publicly with Github (or a similar host) you can set up a Continuous Integration service (like [Travis](https://www.travis-ci.org)) to run FontBakery on each commit, so that with each update your files are tested.

Font Bakery is not an official Google project, and Google provides no support for it.

## Web Usage

Visit [fontbakery.appspot.com](https://fontbakery.appspot.com) and drop 1 to 18 TTF files on the page, and click the "3"

The source code to this web-based user-interface is all in the `webapp/` folder.
In order to run it on your own computer, download this source repo and all dependencies for command line usage.
Then run the following commands:

    cd webapp
    ./dev_appserver.py app

Now open <http://0.0.0.0:8000> in your browser.

## Command Line Usage

Fontbakery installs its own command `fontbakery` in your `$PATH`. The `fontbakery` command makes other subcommands accessible. Here's the output of the command line help:

```
$ fontbakery -h
usage: fontbakery [-h] [--list-subcommands] subcommand

Run fontbakery subcomands:
    build-contributors
    build-font2ttf
    build-fontmetadata
    build-ofl
    check-bbox
    check-description
    check-name
    check-ttf
    check-upstream
    check-vtt-compatibility
    fix-ascii-fontmetadata
    fix-dsig
    fix-familymetadata
    fix-fsselection
    fix-fstype
    fix-gasp
    fix-glyph-private-encoding
    fix-glyphs
    fix-nameids
    fix-nonhinting
    fix-ttfautohint
    fix-vendorid
    fix-vertical-metrics
    list-panose
    list-variable-source
    list-weightclass
    list-widthclass
    metadata-vs-api
    nametable-from-filename
    update-families
    update-nameids
    update-version

Subcommands have their own help messages. These are usually accessible with the -h/--help flag positioned after the subcomand.
I.e.: fontbakery subcommand -h

positional arguments:
  subcommand          the subcommand to execute

optional arguments:
  -h, --help          show this help message and exit
  --list-subcommands  print the list of subcommnds to stdout, separated by a space character. This is usually only used to generate the shell completion code.
```

To run the tests on some fonts:

    cd ~/path/to/fontproject/
    fontbakery check-ttf *.ttf

For more detailed output, run in verbose mode:

    fontbakery check-ttf --verbose *.ttf

It may fix some problems, and save `*.ttf.fix` files in the same directory as the original `.ttf` files.

The check results will be saved to a file called fontbakery-check-results.json.

For check results in GitHub Markdown syntax you can use --ghm:

    fontbakery check-ttf --verbose *.ttf --ghm

### FontBakery web Dashboard

There is a web dashboard that is used for monitoring the check-results of the full Google Fonts collection (or possibly other collections of font families). This tool was initialy developed in this repository, but later it was split out into its own git repo, now available at: https://github.com/googlefonts/fontbakery-dashboard

### Automated testing of all Google Fonts

If you need to generate a list of all issues in a font family collection, such as the Google Fonts collection, you have to have a full checkout of it, and then you can run:

```
sh bin/fontbakery-check-collection.sh **path-to-collection-directory**
```

This will create a folder called check_results and it will run fontbakery on every family from the collection, thus generating individual per-font-file reports both in json and in github markdown format. The reports are saved in subdirectories that have the names of the families.

## Other auxiliary fontbakery scripts

### fontbakery build-contributors

This is a project maintainence tool that generate a CONTRIBUTORS.txt file from a repository's git history.

```
usage: fontbakery build-contributors [-h] folder

positional arguments:
  folder      source folder which contains git commits

optional arguments:
  -h, --help  show this help message and exit
```

### fontbakery build-font2ttf

```
usage: fontbakery build-font2ttf [-h] [--with-otf] source [source ...]

positional arguments:
  source

optional arguments:
  -h, --help  show this help message and exit
  --with-otf  Generate otf file
```

### fontbakery build-fontmetadata

Calculates the visual weight, width or italic angle of fonts. For width, it
just measures the width of how a particular piece of text renders. For weight,
it measures the darness of a piece of text. For italic angle it defaults to
the italicAngle property of the font. Then it starts a HTTP server and shows
you the results, or if you pass --debug then it just prints the values.

```
usage: fontbakery build-fontmetadata [-h] -f FILES [-d] [-e EXISTING] [-m]
                                     -o OUTPUT

optional arguments:
  -h, --help            show this help message and exit
  -f FILES, --files FILES
                        The pattern to match for finding ttfs, eg
                        'folder_with_fonts/*.ttf'.
  -d, --debug           Debug mode, just print results
  -e EXISTING, --existing EXISTING
                        Path to existing font-metadata.csv
  -m, --missingmetadata
                        Only process fonts for which metadata is not available
                        yet
  -o OUTPUT, --output OUTPUT
                        CSV data output filename
```

### fontbakery check-bbox

A FontForge python script for printing bounding boxes to stdout.

```
usage: fontbakery check-bbox [-h] font

positional arguments:
  font        Font in OpenType (TTF/OTF) format

optional arguments:
  -h, --help  show this help message and exit
```

### fontbakery check-description

Runs checks on specified DESCRIPTION file(s)

```
usage: fontbakery check-description [-h] [--verbose] file [file ...]

positional arguments:
  file           Test files, can be a list

optional arguments:
  -h, --help     show this help message and exit
  --verbose, -v  Verbosity level
```

### fontbakery check-upstream

Runs checks or tests on specified upstream folder(s)

```
usage: fontbakery check-upstream [-h] [--verbose] folders [folders ...]

positional arguments:
  folders        Test folder(s), can be a list

optional arguments:
  -h, --help     show this help message and exit
  --verbose, -v  Verbosity level
```

### fontbakery fix-ascii-fontmetadata

Fixes TTF NAME table strings to be ascii only

```
usage: fontbakery fix-ascii-fontmetadata [-h] ttf_font [ttf_font ...]

positional arguments:
  ttf_font    Font in OpenType (TTF/OTF) format

optional arguments:
  -h, --help  show this help message and exit
```

### fontbakery fix-dsig

Fixes TTF to have a dummy DSIG table

```
usage: fontbakery fix-dsig [-h] [--autofix] ttf_font [ttf_font ...]

positional arguments:
  ttf_font    One or more font files

optional arguments:
  -h, --help  show this help message and exit
  --autofix   Apply autofix
```

### fontbakery-fix-familymetadata.py

Print out family metadata of the fonts

```
usage: fontbakery fix-familymetadata [-h] [--csv] font [font ...]

positional arguments:
  font

optional arguments:
  -h, --help  show this help message and exit
  --csv
```

### fontbakery fix-fsselection

Print out fsSelection bitmask of the fonts

```
usage: fontbakery fix-fsselection [-h] [--csv] [--autofix] font [font ...]

positional arguments:
  font

optional arguments:
  -h, --help  show this help message and exit
  --csv
  --autofix
```

### fontbakery fix-gasp

Fixes TTF GASP table

```
usage: fontbakery fix-gasp [-h] [--autofix] [--set SET]
                           ttf_font [ttf_font ...]

positional arguments:
  ttf_font    Font in OpenType (TTF/OTF) format

optional arguments:
  -h, --help  show this help message and exit
  --autofix   Apply autofix
  --set SET   Change gasprange value of key 0xFFFF to a new value
```

### fontbakery fix-glyph-private-encoding

Fixes TTF unencoded glyphs to have Private Use Area encodings

```
usage: fontbakery fix-glyph-private-encoding [-h] [--autofix]
                                             ttf_font [ttf_font ...]

positional arguments:
  ttf_font    Font in OpenType (TTF/OTF) format

optional arguments:
  -h, --help  show this help message and exit
  --autofix   Apply autofix. Otherwise just check if there are unencoded
              glyphs
```

### fontbakery fix-glyphs

Report issues on .glyphs font files

```
usage: fontbakery fix-glyphs [-h] font [font ...]

positional arguments:
  font

optional arguments:
  -h, --help  show this help message and exit
```

### fontbakery fix-nameids

Print out nameID strings of the fonts

```
usage: fontbakery fix-nameids [-h] [--autofix] [--csv] [--id ID]
                              [--platform PLATFORM]
                              font [font ...]

positional arguments:
  font

optional arguments:
  -h, --help            show this help message and exit
  --autofix             Apply autofix
  --csv                 Output data in comma-separate-values (CSV) file format
  --id ID, -i ID
  --platform PLATFORM, -p PLATFORM
```

### fontbakery fix-nonhinting

Fixes TTF GASP table so that its program contains the minimal recommended instructions

```
usage: fontbakery fix-nonhinting [-h] fontfile_in fontfile_out

positional arguments:
  fontfile_in   Font in OpenType (TTF/OTF) format
  fontfile_out  Filename for the output

optional arguments:
  -h, --help    show this help message and exit
```

### fontbakery fix-ttfautohint

Fixes TTF Autohint table

```
usage: fontbakery fix-ttfautohint [-h] ttf_font [ttf_font ...]

positional arguments:
  ttf_font    Font in OpenType (TTF/OTF) format

optional arguments:
  -h, --help  show this help message and exit
```

### fontbakery fix-vendorid

Print vendorID of TTF files

```
usage: fontbakery fix-vendorid [-h] arg_filepaths [arg_filepaths ...]

positional arguments:
  arg_filepaths  font file path(s) to check. Wildcards like *.ttf are allowed.

optional arguments:
  -h, --help     show this help message and exit
```

### fontbakery fix-vertical-metrics

```
usage: fontbakery fix-vertical-metrics  [-h] [-a ASCENTS] [-ah ASCENTS_HHEA]
                                        [-at ASCENTS_TYPO] [-aw ASCENTS_WIN]
                                        [-d DESCENTS] [-dh DESCENTS_HHEA]
                                        [-dt DESCENTS_TYPO]
                                        [-dw DESCENTS_WIN] [-l LINEGAPS]
                                        [-lh LINEGAPS_HHEA]
                                        [-lt LINEGAPS_TYPO]
                                        ttf_font [ttf_font ...]

positional arguments:
  ttf_font              Font file in OpenType (TTF/OTF) format

optional arguments:
  -h, --help            show this help message and exit
  -a ASCENTS, --ascents ASCENTS
                        Set new ascents value.
  -ah ASCENTS_HHEA, --ascents-hhea ASCENTS_HHEA
                        Set new ascents value in 'Horizontal Header' table
                        ('hhea'). This argument cancels --ascents.
  -at ASCENTS_TYPO, --ascents-typo ASCENTS_TYPO
                        Set new ascents value in 'Horizontal Header' table
                        ('OS/2'). This argument cancels --ascents.
  -aw ASCENTS_WIN, --ascents-win ASCENTS_WIN
                        Set new ascents value in 'Horizontal Header' table
                        ('OS/2.Win'). This argument cancels --ascents.
  -d DESCENTS, --descents DESCENTS
                        Set new descents value.
  -dh DESCENTS_HHEA, --descents-hhea DESCENTS_HHEA
                        Set new descents value in 'Horizontal Header' table
                        ('hhea'). This argument cancels --descents.
  -dt DESCENTS_TYPO, --descents-typo DESCENTS_TYPO
                        Set new descents value in 'Horizontal Header' table
                        ('OS/2'). This argument cancels --descents.
  -dw DESCENTS_WIN, --descents-win DESCENTS_WIN
                        Set new descents value in 'Horizontal Header' table
                        ('OS/2.Win'). This argument cancels --descents.
  -l LINEGAPS, --linegaps LINEGAPS
                        Set new linegaps value.
  -lh LINEGAPS_HHEA, --linegaps-hhea LINEGAPS_HHEA
                        Set new linegaps value in 'Horizontal Header' table
                        ('hhea')
  -lt LINEGAPS_TYPO, --linegaps-typo LINEGAPS_TYPO
                        Set new linegaps value in 'Horizontal Header' table
                        ('OS/2')
```

### fontbakery list-panose

Print out Panose of the fonts

```
usage: fontbakery list-panose [-h] [--csv] font [font ...]

positional arguments:
  font

optional arguments:
  -h, --help  show this help message and exit
  --csv
```

### fontbakery list-weightclass

Print out usWeightClass of the fonts

```
usage: fontbakery list-weightclass [-h] [--csv] font [font ...]

positional arguments:
  font

optional arguments:
  -h, --help  show this help message and exit
  --csv
```

### fontbakery list-widthclass

Print out usWidthClass of the fonts

```
usage: fontbakery list-widthclass [-h] [--csv] [--set SET] [--autofix]
                                  font [font ...]

positional arguments:
  font

optional arguments:
  -h, --help  show this help message and exit
  --csv
  --set SET
  --autofix
```

### fontbakery metadata-vs-api

```
usage: fontbakery metadata-vs-api [-h] [--cache CACHE] [--verbose]
                                  [--ignore-copy-existing-ttf] [--autofix]
                                  [--api API]
                                  key repo

positional arguments:
  key                   Key from Google Fonts Developer API
  repo                  Directory tree that contains directories with
                        METADATA.pb files

optional arguments:
  -h, --help            show this help message and exit
  --cache CACHE         Directory to store a copy of the files in the fonts
                        developer api
  --verbose             Print additional information
  --ignore-copy-existing-ttf
  --autofix             Apply automatic fixes to files
  --api API             Domain string to use to request
```

### fontbakery update-families

Compare TTF files when upgrading families.

```
usage: fontbakery update-families [-h] [-v]
                                  arg_filepaths [arg_filepaths ...]

positional arguments:
  arg_filepaths      font file path(s) to check. Wildcards like *.ttf are
                     allowed.

optional arguments:
  -h, --help         show this help message and exit
  -v, --verbose      increase output verbosity
```

## Install

### Mac OS X

```sh
# install os x developer tools and the homebrew package manager
xcode-select --install;
ruby -e "$(curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Homebrew/install/master/install)";

# install ots
brew tap davelab6/webfonttools;
brew update;
brew install ots --HEAD;

# install fontforge
brew install python giflib libspiro icu4c;
brew install fontforge --with-extra-tools --HEAD ;

# install fonttools
easy_install pip;
pip install --upgrade git+https://github.com/behdad/fontTools.git;

# install python dependencies
pip install -r requirements.txt

# install pyfontaine
CFLAGS=-I/usr/local/opt/icu4c/include LDFLAGS=-L/usr/local/opt/icu4c/lib pip install pyicu;
pip install --upgrade git+https://github.com/davelab6/pyfontaine.git;

# install travis, for setting up CI
sudo gem install travis; # fontbakery dependencies

# install fontbakery
pip install --upgrade git+https://github.com/googlefonts/fontbakery.git;
```

### GNU+Linux

```sh
# install fontforge
sudo add-apt-repository --yes ppa:fontforge/fontforge;
sudo apt-get update -qq;
sudo apt-get install python-fontforge

# install pyfontaine
sudo apt-get install libicu-dev git;
sudo pip install pyicu;
pip install --upgrade git+https://github.com/davelab6/pyfontaine.git;

# install ots from source
git clone https://github.com/khaledhosny/ots.git;
cd ots;
./autogen.sh;
./configure;
make CXXFLAGS=-DOTS_DEBUG;
sudo make install;
cd ..;
rm -rf ots;

# install fonttools
pip install --upgrade git+https://github.com/behdad/fontTools.git;

# install python dependencies
pip install -r requirements.txt

# install fontbakery
pip install --upgrade git+https://github.com/googlefonts/fontbakery.git;
```

## Microsoft Font Validator

A prebuilt binary of the Microsoft Font Validator is currently available at the prebuilt/fval directory in this repo. The corresponding source code is available under a free license at https://github.com/Microsoft/Font-Validator. In order to enable this check, you'll need to have the mono runtime installed in your system. You'll also need to have FontValidator.exe available in the system path. One way to achieved would be:

```
sudo apt-get install mono-runtime libmono-system-windows-forms4.0-cil
export PATH=$PATH:$FONTBAKERY_GIT_REPO/prebuilt/fval
```

...where $FONTBAKERY_GIT_REPO should be the name of the directory where you checked out FontBakery source code. Obviously, you can also use any other alternative way of making FontValidator.exe available in your system path.

## Bash completion

Fontbakery comes with a minimal Bash completion script. It can help you to type the subcommands that follow directly after the `fontbakery` command. Bash completion is accessed by hitting the [TAB] key when entering the command.

There's no special completion support for the arguments of the subcommands yet.

### Install

This will enable completion for `fontbakery` on each newly opened Bash.

* Install bash-completion. On many GNU+Linux distributions it is installed and enabled by default. Mac OS X users can find it in Fink or MacPorts.
* Copy or symlink the `path-to/fontbakery/bin/bash_completion` file to `/etc/bash_completion.d/fontbakery` (on Mac&nbsp;OS&nbsp;X to: `/sw/etc/bash_completion.d/fontbakery` or `/opt/local/etc/bash_completion.d/fontbakery`).
* Restart your shell.

### Alternative install

You can source the file directly in a running Bash and only for the running instance:

```
$ . path-to/fontbakery/bin/bash-completion
# OR
$ source path-to/fontbakery/bin/bash-completion
```

This is particularly useful if you are running `fontbakery` in a python virtual environment, i.e. not a system-wide installation.
